<h1>The Final Writeup</h1><br>
<h3><i>Introduction.</i></h3><br>
<p>What do I need to make a good movie?<br>
This is my question. In order to find answers, I made an assumption. I decided that I would consider highly rated movies as good movies. However, I didn't want to ignore the fact a movie also needs to recover its budget and make profits. Films are business after all.</p><br>
<h3><i>Dataset.</i></h3><br>
<p>I chose a dataset from Kaggle. It is called TMDB 5000 Movie Dataset. It can be found <a href='https://www.kaggle.com/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata/data'>here</a>. The list contains columns like - budget, revenue, vote average, vote count, popularity, title, language, etc. As the list contains the latest movies, the budget must have been adjusted to the current USD. I decided to answer all my questions in the form of a story. So, I created fictional characted named Oliver Silver. Through my visualizations, I was looking to find out if there are any factors that could influence in high ratings or high revenue of a film. As I was focussing on movies with high ratings, I wanted movies that were voted as good by many viewers. So, I avoided movies that had less that 1000 votes. I also wanted to focus only on English Films, so I removed films from foreign languages from my list.</p><br>
<h3><i>Visualization.</i></h3><br>
<p>As the line chart I used for HW7 was not that effective, I decided to go with scatterplots for most of the observations. As I had a reasonably big dataset, I wanted to know in which category most of my observations fit into and a scatterplot was perfect for what I needed. I used color hue as the channel for few of my charts and it added clarity to my reasoning. I also made use of a bar chart for my final visualization. Here are the detailed explanations of each chart.</p><br>
<ol><li>The first chart is a Scatterplot that plots popularity with respect to revenue. Though the chart did not turn out to be as informative as I expected, I could infer that pre-release buzz could help in better revenue. I used a color hue as a channel. All the movies where the revenue exceeded its budget are given in blue while the rest are given in red. One can also hover over the dots to check the status of every film.</li>
<li>The second chart is also a Scatterplot that plots Runtime with respect to ratings. This chart is simple when compared to the first chart. But, it has given me more information. A longer runtime tends to yield a better rating. In fact, the movie with the longest runtime has a rating of 8.2.</li>
<li>The third chart is another Scatterplot. Here, I have decided to filter the data and take into account the movies that have a rating of 8 or more. Here, I used color hue as a channel again to check which of the movies in the list are adapted from novels. Movies adapted from novels are represented in Blue while the rest are represented in Gray. I was able to conclude that most of the movies in the list have been adapted from novels.</li>
<li>For chart four, I brought more derived attributes into picture. I calculated the average revenue and budget for films that were novel adaptations and not novel adaptations. I was able to observe that non-novel adaptations had a higher average revenue. It could be because of the fact that they are less in number comparatively.</li>
<li>For the final chart, I wanted to use a dropdown menu on a bar chart because it will help me answer many questions. As it was a little challenging to visualize a chart in version 4, I used version 3. I wanted to make further comparisions between novel adaptations and non novel adaptations. So, I compared them on parameters like average rating, average vote count, and average runtime.</li>
</ol>
<p>With the help of all these charts, I was able to answer my question as to what does it take to make a good movie.</p><br>
<h3>Design Decisions.</h3><br>
<p>In order to find answers, I made changes to my dataset a little. I changed the format of the date from mm/dd/yyyy to yyyy for movies with ratings more than 8. I also made use of a derived atttibute. I created a new column to check if movies with ratings 8 and above are adapted from novels. I did my research. For convenience, I have assumed movies inspired from graphic novels and multiple stories (or novels) as movies adapted from novels because there were not many movies falling in this category. This derived attribute helped me infer that most of the highly rated movies are adapted from novels.</p><br>
<h3>Development Process.</h3><br>
<p>Getting an idea as to how to visualize my question or finding the appropriate idiom was the most challenging task for me. It took me about a week to decide on how to visualize my question. After finding a suitable idiom, the next phase began. I was stuck at many places. I did not know how to go about it. Then, I decided I could make use of a dervied attribute and that proved to be extremely helpful. I was thinking of making use of dimple.js as it could improve the interactivity of my visualizations. But, I felt I could maybe express my story in a simple yet effective manner. Moreover, it was a little challenging mastering dimple in such a short span of time. The final chart was also a challenge. I was unable to figure out how to create a dropdown bar chart using d3 version 4. That took some time too. I decided to proceed with version 3 instead. However, making use of the derived attribute and using scatterplots helped me identify most of the answers to my question. I could infer that if I adapt a novel written before 2000 into a movie with proper promotion, I have a greater chance of scoring a hit as well as good ratings.</p><br>
<p>For this Homework, I have also made use of a webcomic I created with my friend as I thought it would be relevant and make my homework appear more like a story.<p><br>
<p>Here is my <a href='http://www.cs.odu.edu/~skanduku/FinalVis/HW9/'>Final Visualization</a></p><br>
<h3>References.</h3><br>
<p>Below are the references that have helped me throughout my assignment.</p><br>
<a href='https://stackoverflow.com/'>Stack Overflow</a><br>
<a href='https://www.w3schools.com/'>W3 Schools</a><br>
<a href='http://bl.ocks.org/jonahwilliams/2f16643b999ada7b1909'>This block belonging to Jonah Williams.</a>
<a href='https://bl.ocks.org/mbostock/3887051'>Another One!</a>
